# Knowledge Base

Replace everything below this line with your actual notes, docs, or information.
The agent will read this file on every request and use it to answer questions.

Plain text or Markdown both work fine — headings, bullet points, paragraphs are all readable by the AI.

---

➤ xvii
■ YOU ARE A LIVING MAGNET
The Law of Attraction says that you are a “living magnet” and that you
invariably attract into your life the people, ideas, opportunities, and
circumstances in harmony with your dominant thoughts.
When you think positive, optimistic, loving, and successful thoughts, you
create a force field of magnetism that attracts, like iron filings to a magnet, the
very things you are thinking about. This law explains why it is that you don’t
have to be concerned where your good is going to come from. If you can keep
your mind clearly focused on what you want, and refrain from thinking about
what you don’ t want, you will attract everything you need to achieve your
goals, exactly when you are ready. Change your thinking and you change
your life.
■ THE ONLY REAL MEASURE
Bertrand Russell, the English philosopher, once said,
“The very best proof
that something can be done is that others have already done it.
” In the New
Testament, Jesus taught the way to measure the truth of any principle: “By
their fruits, ye shall know them.
” In other words, the only question you need
to ask about any idea is,
“Does it work?” Does it bring about the results that
you desire? Milton Friedman, the Nobel prizewinning economist, said,
“The only true measure of a theory or idea is your ability to make accurate
predictions of the future based on it.
” The good news is that the ideas and
principles you are about to learn have been tested and proven in the lives and
experiences of millions of people. In themselves, like any principles of nature,
they are neutral. Nature plays no favorites. Nature treats everyone alike.
Whatever seed you plant in the ground, nature will grow. Whatever thought
seeds you plant in your mind, nature will grow as well. It is entirely up to you.
■ CHOOSE YOUR THOUGHTS
Successful people are those who think more effectively than unsuccessful
people. They approach their lives, relationships, goals, ccc
_
tracy_
fm
i-
_
xviii.qxd 7/7/03 3:23 PM Page xviii xviii
INTRODUCTION
➤
problems, and experiences differently from others. They sow better seeds, and
as a result they reap better lives. If you learn to think and act like other
successful, happy, healthy, and prosperous people, you will soon enjoy the
kind of lives they do. When you change your thinking, you change your life.
Nature understands no jesting. She is always true, always serious, always
severe. She is always right, and the errors and faults are always those of
man. The man incapable of appreciating her she despises, and only to the
apt, the pure, and the true does she resign herself and reveal her secrets.
—Johann Wolfgang von Goethe
ccc
_
tracy_
1
_
1-17.qxd 6/23/03 2:46 PM Page 1
C h 1
a p t e r
Change Y our Thinking
There is a law in psychology that if you form a picture in your mind of
what you would like to be, and you keep and hold that picture there long
enough, you will soon become exactly as you have been thinking.
—William James
Once upon a time there was a woman, about 30 years old, married with two
children. Like many people, she had grown up in a home where she was
constantly criticized and often treated unfairly by her parents. As a result, she
developed deep feelings of inferiority and low self-esteem. She was negative
and fearful, and had no confidence at all. She was shy and self-effacing, and
did not consider herself to be particularly valuable or worthwhile. She felt that
she was not really talented at anything.
One day, as she was driving to the store, another car went through a red light
and smashed into her. When she awoke, she was in the hospital with a mild
concussion and complete memory loss.
She could still speak, but she had no recollection of any part of her past life.
She was a total amnesiac.
At first, the doctors thought it would be temporary. But weeks passed and no
trace of her memory returned. Her husband and children visited her daily, but
she did not know them. This was such an unusual case that other doctors and
specialists came to visit her as well, to test her and ask her questions about her
condition.
1
ccc
_
tracy_
1
_
1-17.qxd 6/23/03 2:46 PM Page 2
2
➤
CHANGE YOUR THINKING, CHANGE YOUR LIFE
■ STARTING OVER
Eventually, she went home, her memory a complete blank. Determined to
understand what had happened to her, she began reading medical textbooks
and studying in the specialized area of amnesia and memory loss. She met
and spoke with specialists in this field.
Eventually she wrote a paper on her condition. Not long afterward, she was
invited to address a medical convention to deliver her paper, answer questions
about her amnesia, and share her experiences and ideas on neurological
functioning.
During this period, something amazing happened. She became a new person
completely. All the attention in the hospital and afterward made her feel
valuable, important, and truly loved by her family.
The attention and acclaim she received from members of the medical
profession built her self-esteem and self-respect even higher.
She became a genuinely positive, confident, outgoing woman, highly
articulate, well informed, and very much in demand as a speaker and
authority in the medical profession.
All memory of her negative childhood had been wiped out. Her feelings of
inferiority were wiped out as well. She became a new person. She changed
her thinking and changed her life.
■ THE BLANK SLATE
The Scottish philosopher David Hume was the first to propose the idea of the
tabula rasa or blank slate. This theory says that each person comes into the
world with no thoughts or ideas at all, and everything that a person thinks and
feels is learned from infancy onward. It is as though the child’s mind is a
blank slate that every passing person and experience leaves a mark on. The
adult becomes the sum total of everything he or she learns, feels, and
experiences growing up. What the adult does and becomes later is the result
of this early conditioning. As Aristotle wrote,
“Whatever is impressed is
expressed.
”
Perhaps the greatest breakthrough in the field of human potential in the
twentieth century was the discovery of the self-concept.
This is the idea that each person develops a bundle of beliefs regarding
oneself, starting at birth. Y our self-concept then becomes ccc
_
tracy_
1
_
17.qxd 6/23/03 2:46 PM Page 3
1-
Change Y our Thinking
➤ 3
the master program of your subconscious computer, determining everything
you think, say, feel, and do. For this reason, all change in your outer life
begins with a change in your self-concept, with a change in the way you think
and feel about yourself and your world.
The child is born with no self-concept at all. Every idea, opinion, feeling,
attitude, or value you have as an adult you learned from childhood.
Everything you are today is the result of an idea or impression you took in
and accepted as true. When you believe something to be true, it becomes true
for you, whatever the fact may be.
“Y ou are not what you think you are, but what you think, you are.
”
■ FIRST IMPRESSIONS ARE LASTING
If you were raised by parents who continually told you what a good person
you were, who loved you, encouraged you, supported you, and believed in
you, no matter what you did or didn’t do, you would grow up with the belief
that you were a good and valuable person.
By the age of three, this belief would lock in and become a fundamental part
of the way you view yourself in relation to your world.
Thereafter, no matter what happens to you, you would hold to this belief. It
would become your reality.
If you were raised by parents who did not know how powerful their words
and behaviors could be in shaping your personality, they could very easily
have used destructive criticism, disapproval, and physical or emotional
punishment to discipline or control you.
When a child is continually criticized at an early age, he soon concludes that
there is something wrong with him. He doesn’t understand why it is that he is
being criticized or punished, but he assumes that his parents know the truth
about him, and that he deserves it. He begins to feel that he is not valuable or
lovable. He is not worth very much. He must therefore be worthless.
Almost all personality problems in adolescence and adulthood are rooted in
what psychologists refer to as love withheld.
The child needs love like roses need rain. When children feel unloved, they
feel unsafe and insecure. They think,
“I’m not good enough.
” They begin to
engage in compensatory behaviors to make up for this inner anxiety. This
sense of love deprivation is manifested in misbehavior, personality problems,
bursts of anger, ccc
_
tracy_
1
_
1-17.qxd 6/23/03 2:46 PM Page 4
4
➤
CHANGE YOUR THINKING, CHANGE YOUR LIFE
depression, hopelessness, lack of ambition, and problems with people and
relationships.
■ YOU ARE BORN UNAFRAID
The child is born with no fears, except those of falling and loud noises. All
other fears have to be taught to the child as he or she grows up.
The two major fears we all develop are the fear of failure or loss and the fear
of criticism or rejection. We begin to learn the fear of failure if we are
continually criticized and punished when we try something new or different.
We are shouted at and told,
“No! Get away from there! Stop that! Put that
down!” Physical punishment and the withholding of love, possibilities that
scare us and make us feel insecure, often accompany these shouts and
criticisms.
We soon begin to believe that we are too small, too weak, incompetent,
inadequate, and incapable of doing anything new or different. We express this
feeling with the words,
“I can’t, I can’t, I can’t.
” Whenever we think about
doing something new or challenging, we automatically respond with feelings
of fear, trembling, and a churning stomach. We react exactly as if we are
afraid of getting a spanking. We say,
“I can’t” over and over.
The fear of failure is the primary reason for failure in adult life.
As the result of destructive criticism in childhood, we hold ourselves back as
adults. We sell ourselves short. We quit before we even try the first time.
Instead of using our amazing minds to figure out how to get what we want,
we use our reasoning ability to create reasons why we can’t, and why the
things we want are not possible for us.
■ THE NEED TO BE LOVED
The second major fear that holds us back, undermines our confidence, and
destroys our desire for a happy life is the fear of rejection, and its expression,
criticism. This emotion is learned in early childhood as the result of our
parents expressing disapproval of us whenever we do something they don’t
like, or don’t do something that they expect. As a result of our displeasing
them, they ccc
_
tracy_
1
_
1-17.qxd 6/23/03 2:46 PM Page 5
Change Y our Thinking
➤ 5
become angry and withdraw the love and approval we need so much as
children.
The fear of being unloved and alone is so traumatic for a child that she soon
conforms her behavior to do whatever she thinks her parents will approve of.
She loses her spontaneity and uniqueness.
She begins to think,
“I have to! I have to! I have to!” She concludes,
“I have to do whatever Mommy and Daddy want me to, or they won’t love
me, and I’ll be all alone!”
■ CONDITIONAL LOVE
As an adult, a child raised with what is called “conditional love” (as opposed
to unconditional love, the greatest gift one person can give to another)
becomes hypersensitive to the opinions of others. In its extreme form, he
cannot do anything if there is the slightest chance that someone else may not
approve. He projects his childhood relationship with his parents onto the
important people in his adult life—spouse, boss, relatives, friends, authority
figures—and tries desperately to earn their approval, or at least not lose it.
The fears of failure and rejection, caused by destructive criticism in early
childhood, are the root causes of most of our unhappiness and anxiety as
adults. We feel,
“I can’t!” or “I have to!” continually. The worst feeling is
when we feel,
“I can’t, but I have to!” or “I have to, but I can’t!”
We want to do something, but we are afraid of failure or loss, or if we are not
afraid of loss, we are afraid of disapproval. We want to do something to
improve our lives, at work or at home, but we are afraid that we may fail, or
that someone else may criticize us, or both.
For most people, their fears govern their lives. Everything they do is
organized around avoiding failure or criticism. They think continually about
playing it safe, rather than striving for their goals.
They seek security rather than opportunity.
■ DOUBLE YOUR RATE OF FAILURE
The author Arthur Gordon once approached Thomas J. Watson Sr., the
founder of IBM, and asked him how he could succeed faster as
ccc
_
tracy_
1
_
1-17.qxd 6/23/03 2:46 PM Page 6
6
➤
CHANGE YOUR THINKING, CHANGE YOUR LIFE
a writer. Thomas J. Watson, one of the giants of American business, replied
with these profound words: “If you want to be successful faster, you must
double your rate of failure. Success lies on the far side of failure.
”
The fact is that the more you have already failed, the more likely it is you are
on the verge of great success. Y our failures have prepared you to succeed.
This is why a streak of good luck seems to follow a streak of bad luck. When
in doubt,
“double your rate of failure.
” The more things you try, the more
likely you are to triumph.
Y ou overcome your fears only by doing the thing you fear until the fear has
no more control over you.
■ YOUR MENTAL HARD DRIVE
Everything you know about yourself, all your beliefs, are recorded on the
hard drive of your personality, in your self-concept. Y our self-concept
precedes and predicts your levels of performance and effectiveness in
everything you do. Because of the law of correspondence, you always behave
on the outside in a manner consistent with your self-concept on the inside. All
improvement in your life therefore begins with an improvement in your self-
concept.
Y ou have an overall self-concept that is made up of all your beliefs about
yourself and your abilities. This bundle of beliefs includes all the experiences,
decisions, successes, failures, ideas, information, emotions, and opinions of
your life up to now. This general self-concept determines how and what you
think and feel about yourself, and measures how well you are doing in
general.
■ YOUR MINI-SELF-CONCEPTS
Y ou have a series of “mini-self-concepts” as well. These mini-self-concepts
combine to make up your overall self-concept. Y ou have a self-concept for
every area of your life that you consider important.
This mini-self-concept determines how you think, feel, and perform in that
area.
For example, you have a self-concept for how healthy and fit you are, and
how much you eat or exercise. Y ou have a self-concept ccc
_
tracy_
1
_
1-17.qxd
6/23/03 2:46 PM Page 7
Change Y our Thinking
➤ 7
for how likable and popular you are with others, especially with members of
the opposite sex. Y ou have a self-concept for what kind of a spouse or parent
you are, for how good a friend you are to your friends, how smart you are,
and how well you learn.Y ou have a self-concept for every sport you play, and
for every activity you engage in, including how well you drive your car.
Y ou have a self-concept for how well you do your work, and for how well
you do each part of your work. Y ou have a self-concept for how much money
you make and how well you save and invest it. This is a critical area. The fact
is that you can never earn much more or less than your self-concept level of
income. If you want to make more money, you have to change your beliefs
about yourself relative to income and money. This is an important part of this
book.
■ CHANGE YOUR BELIEFS
In every case, if you want to change your performance and your results in any
area of your life, you have to change your self-concept—or your beliefs about
yourself—for that area. Fortunately, your beliefs are largely subjective. They
are not always based on facts. Instead, they are based largely on information
you have taken in and accepted as true, sometimes with very little evidence or
proof.
The very worst beliefs you can have are self-limiting beliefs of any kind.
These are beliefs about yourself that cause you to feel somehow limited or
deficient in a particular area. These beliefs are seldom true, but if you accept
them as valid estimates of your ability, they become true for you, exactly as if
they were correct.
The starting point of unlocking your potential, and accomplishing more than
you ever have before, is for you to challenge your self-limiting beliefs. Y ou
begin this process of freeing yourself from self-limiting beliefs by imagining
that, whatever they are, they are completely untrue. Imagine for the moment
that you have no limitations on your abilities at all. Imagine that you could be,
do, or have anything you really wanted in life. Imagine that your potential is
unlimited in any way.
ccc
_
tracy_
1
_
1-17.qxd 6/23/03 2:46 PM Page 8
8
➤
CHANGE YOUR THINKING, CHANGE YOUR LIFE
For example, imagine that you could be earning twice as much as you are
earning today. Imagine that you could be living in a bigger house, driving a
better car, and enjoying a more expensive lifestyle.
Imagine that you have the ability to be one of the top people in your field.
Imagine that you are one of the most popular, powerful, and persuasive
personalities in your social and business world.
Imagine that you are calm, confident, and unafraid of anything.
Imagine that you could set and achieve any goal you put your mind to. This is
how you begin changing your thinking and changing your life.
The starting point of eliminating your fears, and releasing your potential, is to
reprogram your mental hard drive with new, positive, constructive, and
courageous beliefs about yourself and your future.
Throughout this book, you will learn how to do this.
■ THREE PARTS OF
YOUR SELF-CONCEPT
Y our self-concept has three parts, like a pie divided into three wedges. Each is
linked with each of the others. All three elements together make up your
personality. They largely determine what you think, feel, and do, and
everything that happens to you.
Y our self-ideal is the first part of your personality and your self-concept. Y our
self-ideal is made up of all of your hopes, dreams, visions, and ideals. Y our
self-ideal is composed of the virtues, values, and qualities that you most
admire in yourself and others.
Y our self-ideal is the person you would most like to become, if you could be a
perfect person in every way. These ideals guide and shape your behavior.
Great men and women, leaders, and people of character are very clear about
their values, visions, and ideals. They know who they are and what they
believe in. They set high standards for themselves, and they don’t
compromise those standards. They are men and women that others can look
up to and depend on. They are definite and distinct in their interactions with
others. In everything they do, they strive to live up to their ideals.
ccc
_
tracy_
1
_
1-17.qxd 6/23/03 2:46 PM Page 9
Change Y our Thinking
➤ 9
■ THE W AY YOU SEE YOURSELF
The second part of your self-concept is your self-image. This is the way you
see yourself and think about yourself. It is often called your
“inner mirror.
” It is where you look internally to see how you should behave
in a particular situation. Because of the power of your self-image, you always
perform on the outside consistent with the picture you have of yourself on the
inside.
The discovery of the self-image, pioneered by Maxwell Maltz, is a major
breakthrough in understanding human performance and effectiveness. By
visualizing and imagining yourself performing at your best in an upcoming
situation, you send a message to your subconscious mind.Y our subconscious
mind accepts this message as a command, and then coordinates your thoughts,
words, and actions so that they fit a pattern consistent with the picture you
created.
All improvement in your life begins with an improvement in your mental
pictures.Y our internal images influence your emotions, your behaviors, your
attitudes, and even the way other people respond to you. The development of
a positive self-image is a vital part of changing your thinking and changing
your life.
■ HOW YOU FEEL ABOUT YOURSELF
The third part of your self-concept is your self-esteem. This is the emotional
component of your personality, and is the most important factor in
determining how you think, feel, and behave. Y our level of self-esteem
largely determines much of what happens to you in life.
Y our self-esteem is best defined as how much you like yourself.
The more you like yourself, the better you perform at anything you attempt.
And by the law of reversibility, the better you perform, the more you like
yourself.
Y our self-esteem is the “reactor core” of your personality. It is the ene
